# Final-Project-Transforming-and-Analyzing-Data-with-SQL

## Project/Goals
PURPOSE OF PROJECT
1. Understand Sales Pattern
    a. What are the most ordered products from different countries and city identified by order quantity?
    b. How much revenue is being generated across different countries and cities?
    c. Top selling products by country and city by total revenue?
    d. What are the top product categories being sold?
2. Web analytics 
    a. How is the website performing based on 
      i. Page views 
      ii. Bounce rate
      iii.Channel grouping
3. Operations Analytics 
   a. How is the stocking efficiency of the business/website?
    b. Understand product stocking (stockLevel, restocking Lead Time)

## Process
Created a data model (relational data model)
Wrote SQL query to CREATE TABLES as per the data files (QUERY TOOL)
Wrote SQL query to INSERT data into the tables using file path (PSQL Tool)
Data Cleaning 
Queries and output for the questions
Challenges
Identify possible questions



## Results
Q1. Largest total revenue generated from country & city
Answer: The largest total revenue generated by country is United states in a city not captured by the website. 
It is important to identify this city so that it can be targeted better with online marketing and sales activities. 
The top 3 country and city are from united states, making it the country with the largest transaction revenue. 
The 4th spot is with Israel (Tel Aviv) demonstrating a strong market presence here. 

Q2.On Average how many products are ordered from each city & country
Answer: On average United States has the highest average of products ordered. However again the system is unable to capture the city (not available in demo dataset). It is important to understand which city is most likely to order and help create a strong market base in that city. 
2nd highest average products ordered is by Spain (Madrid).
3rd to 6th spot represents different cities in the united states that have an average of 8.00 to 1.17 products ordered.
The remaining list of the average highest ordered stands at an average of 1.00 – showing smaller markets for the company. 

Q3. Identify a pattern in the product category ordered from each city & country
Answer: United States again shows a dominant market with top products being sold by product quantity
Home/Office/Notebooks & Journals
Bags


Q4.Top selling product by city & country
Abswer: United States with Mountain View City is again the dominant market with the top 3 products being ordered as below
1. Cam Indoor Security Camera – USA, 2448
2. Ballpoint LED Light Pen,1824
3. Cam Outdoor Security Camera - USA,1568


## Challenges 
Understanding the data model and the dependencies of columns across multiple tables.
Determining the data types to create and insert data.  
No clear relationship between transaction revenue, quantity, price – This made it difficult to explore the data in monetary term. 

## Future Goals
The below mentioned relationship between columns within each table can be explored further to identidy a proper sales and marketing process for the ecommerce store. 
Total Transactions and Transaction revenue
Total Transactions based on Channel Grouping, Time on site & Page views
Most costly item being sold on the website, explored by product price 
Website performance by Page views, and bounces by channel group
Identify the most frequented visitor by page view and bounce count. Target the top visitors and identify pattern. 
Identify the channel from which most visitors bounce on the website. 
Top 10 products by order_quantity 
Products with the lowest restock time/ or the highest
